---
title: "A few notes of mathematics"
author: "asmith26"
date: 2019-12-26T15:28:48.522+0000
last_modified_at: 2019-12-26T15:29:54.526+0000
categories: ""
tags: ["mathematics","problem-solving","logic","math","thinking"]
description: "Mathematical Statements"
render_with_liquid: false
---

### A few notes of mathematics
### Mathematical Statements

Definitions and Propositions/Theorems/… normally take the form:
1. Object _a_ has property _P_ \.
_3 is prime\._
2. Every object of type _T_ has property _P_ \.
_Every integer ≥1 is prime or can be represented as the product of primes, uniquely\._
3. There exist objects of type _T_ having property _P_ \.
_There exist infinite sets with different sizes\._
4. If statement _A_ , then statement _B_ \.
_If a function f is both injective and surjective, then f is bijection\._

### **List some problem solving strategies**
- What are you trying to answer?
Do you understand all notation/terminology?
Can you draw a table/graph/picture to describe what’s going on?
- Can you identify exactly why you are stuck?
Simplify the problem/consider simple cases \(when x = 0, 1, 2,…; when x is real, integer,…; limiting cases\) \.
- Make conjectures and assumptions — do they initially break down?
Which theorems can be used based on the assumptions?
- Patterns? Similar examples?
What strategies are used for similar problems like this?
- Is it better to work backwards?
- Create a concept map \(quantity not quality\) \.
Which ideas are worth following?
- Take a break/walk \(use the deep mind to solve unconsciously\) \.
- Review:
Check all calculations and logic hold\.
Dimensional analysis: Is the answer dimensionally correct? Does the size/sign seem reasonable?
Can you check using a different method?



_[Post](https://medium.com/@asmith9992/a-few-notes-of-mathematics-305951b2b4ee){:target="_blank"} converted from Medium by [ZMediumToMarkdown](https://github.com/ZhgChgLi/ZMediumToMarkdown){:target="_blank"}._
